what does classification mean?
meaning of C1S1: Low salinity and low sodium waters are good for irrigation and can be used with
most crops with no restriction on use on most of the soils.
and meaning of C2S1: Medium salinity and low sodium waters are good for irrigation and can be used on
all most all soils with little danger of development of harmful levels of exchangeable
sodium if a moderate amount of leaching occurs. Crops can be grown without any special
consideration for salinity control.
and meaning of C3S1: The high salinity and low sodium waters require good drainage. Crops with good
salt tolerance should be selected.
and C3S2: The high salinity and medium sodium waters require good drainage and can be used
on coarse - textured or organic soils having good permeability.
and C3S3: These high salinity and high sodium waters require special soil management, good
drainage, high leaching and organic matter additions. Gypsum amendments make feasible
the use of these waters.
but C4S1: Very high salinity and low sodium waters are not suitable for irrigation unless the
soil must be permeable and drainage must be adequate. Irrigation waters must be applied
in excess to provide considerable leaching. Salt tolerant crops must be selected.
but C4S2: Very high salinity and medium sodium waters are not suitable for irrigation on fine
textured soils and low leaching conditions and can be used for irrigation on coarse textured
or organic soils having good permeability.
but C4S3: Very high salinity and high sodium waters produce harmful levels of exchangeable
sodium in most soils and will require special soil management, good drainage, high
leaching, and organic matter additions. The Gypsum amendment makes feasible the use of
these waters.
but C4S4: Very high salinity and very high sodium waters are generally unsuitable for
irrigation purposes. These are sodium chloride types of water and can cause sodium
hazards. It can be used on coarse-textured soils with very good drainage for very high salt tolerant crops. Gypsum amendments make feasible the use of these waters.
what does the RSC value mean?
RSC less than 1.25 is safe
RSC between 1.25 and 2.50 is marginal
RSC greater than 2.50 is unsuitable
what does the TDS value mean?
TDS less than 1000 mg/L means Excellent -- Excellent for all classes of livestock and poultry.
TDS between 1000-3000 means very satisfactory -- Satisfactory for all classes of livestock. May cause temporary mild diarrhea in livestock not accustomed to them. Those waters approaching the upper limits may cause some watery droppings in poultry.
TDS between 3000-5000 means Satisfactory for livestock Unfit for poultry -- Satisfactory for livestock but may be refused by animals not accustomed to it. If Sulphate salts predominate, animals may show temporary diarrhea. Poor waters for poultry, often causing watery faeces, increased mortality and decreasedgrowth especially in turkeys.
TDS between 5000-7000 means Limited use for livestock Unfit for poultry -- This water can be used for livestock except for those that are pregnant or lactating. It may have some laxative effect and may be refused by animals until they become accustomed to it. It is unsatisfactory for poultry.
TDS between 7000-10,000 means Very limited use -- Considerable risk for pregnant and lactating cows, horses, sheep and for the young of these species. It may be used for older ruminants or horses. Unfit for poultry and probably swine.
TDS greater than 10,000 means Not recommended -- This water is unsatisfactory for all classes of livestock and poultry.
